Update Beta Docs “grain” (#185)
sourcecred/docs: docs/beta/grain.md

---
## 🌾 What is Grain?

Grain is a community-specific digital currency which is issued on the basis of [Cred](/docs/beta/cred) scores. Grain represents how much a participant has supported that community, either through contributions or financial support. Grain can be used to pay participants, or for “Boosting” contributions or initiatives. 

Boosting allows a participant to burn Grain in order to increase the Cred of a specific contribution. Boosting acts as a way of helping to set the project’s values and priorities, and gives the Booster an increased say in the direction of the project. When you use Grain for Boosting, you get a share of the Cred for whatever you are Boosting, which in turn will earn you future Grain.

Projects can choose to issue their Grain as a cryptocurrency or token, for example by issuing Grain as an ERC-20 token on Ethereum. This allows Grain to be a conduit with which a project can pay or financially reward participants.

Note that Grain does not _have_ to be tied to any actual monetary concept, such as cryptocurrency. A SourceCred project can name it “Points” and use it solely as a scoring system in addition to Cred values.

## How you earn Grain

> Grain is created during what we call “Harvests.” A Harvest is a two-fold process with periodic cycles, which can be configured independently:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grain is created during what we call “Harvests.” A Harvest is a two-step process in which the Cred is recomputed (so scores are as fresh as possible), and Grain is then distributed based on those Cred scores.
```

"A two-fold process with periodic cycles" is pretty confusing, and suggests that an individual harvest contains multiple cycles.

Author: Good suggested changes! (I mean, an individual harvest _does_ contain multiple cycles: 4x7 Cred Calculations. Buuuut you're right that that adds confusion, not clarity 😂)

#### 1. Cred Calculation
In this cycle, the project recomputes the Cred Contribution Graph by gathering the data your plugins are tracking, and calculating new Cred scores. By default, this cycle runs every 6 hours.

#### 2. Grain Distribution
In this less-frequent cycle, the project distributes Grain based on participants’ newest Cred scores. By default, this cycle runs once a week.

> Your Cred score determines the percentage of Grain you receive out of the total amount allocated to the community for each Harvest, regardless of how frequently Cred Calculation happens within it. 

Reviewer: Suggest removing these two paragraphs. I found them quite confusing with the talk of "periodic cycles", "less-frequent cycles", etc. I think just the top level overview I suggested above would be fine, maybe with a bit more info like:

By default, projects re-compute Cred every 6 hours, but only distribute Grain once a week: on Sunday morning, UTC time. Thus, the project has a full harvest only once per week.

Author: Sounds good, I made the change via Review below (I can't force-commit it myself, ironically).

> #### 1. Cred Calculation
> In this cycle, the project recomputes the Cred Contribution Graph by gathering the data your plugins are tracking, and calculating new Cred scores. By default, this cycle runs every 6 hours.
> 
> #### 2. Grain Distribution
> In this less-frequent cycle, the project distributes Grain based on participants’ newest Cred scores. By default, this cycle runs once a week.
> 
> Your Cred score determines the percentage of Grain you receive out of the total amount allocated to the community for each Harvest, regardless of how frequently Cred Calculation happens within it. 

Author: ```suggestion
By default, projects re-compute Cred every 6 hours, but only distribute Grain once a week: on Sunday morning, UTC time. Thus, the project has a full harvest only once per week.
```

#### Grain Distribution Policies
SourceCred currently has two policies for how a project distributes Grain:

> - `IMMEDIATE` splits Grain evenly based on everyone’s Cred earned per the most recent Grain Distribution cycle. (default: last week)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `IMMEDIATE` splits Grain evenly based on how much Cred each participant earned last week. (This policy ignores all Cred from previous weeks, and is intended to give fast rewards to active participants.)
```

It's hard-coded to weekly, so no need to describe it as a default.

> - `BALANCED` splits Grain based on lifetime Cred. This will accommodate a retroactively-updated Cred shift by equalizing compensation as soon as possible, using as few Harvests as possible to achieve lifetime distribution balance. Note: This means that overpaid contributors might receive 0 Grain for some period of time, if it takes more than one full Harvest worth of Grain distribution to achieve balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `BALANCED` splits Grain based both on lifetime Cred and on lifetime Grain earnings. Balanced tries to ensure that everyone in the project receives a total Grain payment which is consistent with their total Cred score. For example, suppose that a contributor used to have a low Cred score, and as such received a small amount of Grain. However, the community recently changed its weights, or added a new plugin, such that the contributor now has a larger amount of Cred. The balanced policy sees that this contributor is underpaid, so it will pay them extra to "catch them up" to others in the project. Conversely, contributors might be "overpaid", and they'll receive less Grain until the payouts have been equalized.
```

### _“What if I contributed a lot before a small Grain distribution, and then less before a bigger Grain distribution?”_

Since Cred is retroactive, the SourceCred algorithm will make sure your percentage is based on _all_ of your contributions compared to all existing contributions, and make sure your percentage is based on the total amount of Grain that has been issued to the community. _Ever._ 

### _“Can I buy Grain?”_

> Yes, you can also get Grain by becoming a sponsor. Buying Grain sponsors participants directly (by paying them for their Grain). Thus, anyone holding Grain has supported the project, either directly through contributions, or indirectly through financial sponsorship. When someone wants to sell their Grain for dollars (or some other currency), the money either comes from sponsors buying their Grain, or a pool their community has previously set up.

Reviewer: Hmm, this isn't accurate in general (or for SourceCred). This is up to the project to decide. Currently in SourceCred you can sell Grain but you can't buy it.

Author: Okay. That's mostly all coming from how the old doc was before I came to the project, so now I'm confused… I've been told repeatedly that you can buy Grain $1:1 but I guess that's always been with the unspoken caveat of "in the future, once we implement that as an option" ?
